+++
title = "Viruses"
date = 2020-03-30

[taxonomies]
tags = ["Viruses", "Molecular Biology"]
categories = ["Posts"]
+++

More of an intro to molecular biology
This is a fairly long read I've written it in such a way that you can jump between sections easily and get the info you care about :)

Before we talk about viruses let's start our earlier. The story starts with DNA.

<!-- more -->

# What are we and what are made of?

We're made of star dust? We're carbon based organisms bla bla bla

Molecular machines

## Why do we have DNA?
People will often say things like _DNA is the blueprint of life_ but what on earth does that mean?
Think of the body as a machine made up of many molecules making other molecules.
Turns out proteins are very important for life. Proteins are our enzymes, they make up most of our cells together with lipids etc.

Why do we even have DNA?

Viruses infect bacteria [Basic Mechanisms of Cloning, excerpt 1 | MIT 7.01SC Fundamentals of Biology][2]

# The central dogma of molecular biology
Insert image of DNA -> RNA -> Protein


## Why doesn't DNA go straight to protein?

# Dawrin

Selection preassure

## positive selection

## Negative selection

# Infection vs disease

# Testing

## PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction)

## Antibodies

# Transmission rates


## Rates of growth
### Linear vs exponential growth

# RNA viruses

## Retroviruses
 [Reverse-transcriptase inhibitor][1]

[1]: ]https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse-transcriptase_inhibitor
[2]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CdAgzk5tQhs&list=PLF83B8D8C87426E44&index=19
